(bright music)
Hey there. We're going to write a custom hook
so that when you click on one of these buttons,
they will add it to your order.
And then we can loop over the order
and start to display it in here,
as well as show a button to check out
and show the total, all that good stuff.
So, let's get rocking on this.
We'll go into our utils and we will make a new file.
Let's call it, usePizza.js
And we'll export, default, function, use pizza.
And, that will take in two arguments.
We'll do curly brackets here. We'll accept one argument,
which is really an object with two properties.
And we want pizzas and inputs.
Inputs we're going to cross that bridge
when we get to sending emails,
for now, the pizzas are just going to be a list
of the actual pizzas that we have.
So, what we need to do inside of here is we need to,
one, create some state to hold our order.
Two, we need, to make a function to add things to order,
and then we'll make a function
to remove things from the order.
And then in the future, four is send this data to a
serverless function when they check out.
So that is a future video.
We're not going to be doing that in this video right now.
So first one, create some state to hold our order.
Okay. That's pretty simple.
We can go ahead and say const, square bracket,
order and set order. And that is equal to use state.
And we'll default it to an empty array.
We need to import usestate from react.
There we go. It's importing from react. Good.
Then number two, we need to make a function
to add things to the order.
So, we'll make a function here called add to order
that takes in an ordered pizza.
And from that we'll return. Oh no, we won't return it,
we'll just run set order and we'll take our array of
existing order items and the ordered pizza.
So this is very similar.
We probably could also just return
this set state function here,
but it's a little bit nicer to be able to just pass it in a
pizza and for us to internally set that and
deal with all the copying of it.
Similarly, we need to make a function.
I'll remove from order.
And this will just take in an index
that needs to be removed.
And in our case, we will set order again,
where we pass an array and the items in the array are going
to be everything before the item we want to remove.
And then everything after the item we want to remove.
So basically if you have like an array of
one, two, three, four, five,
we want to make a new array of the parts before.
Like let's say we're removing three.
We want to make a new array of the parts before one and two,
and the parts after four and five.
And then what that does is just leaves out three
and that set is removed.
So, we'll ...order.slice.
We start at zero and go to the index right before
the one we want to remove and then ...order.slice
And then we'll go from everything after the index.
Index plus one, to the end.
And if you omit the second argument of slice,
it will just go to the end of the array that we want.
All right.
And then finally, down here, we'll just say, to do,
and then we will return all the functionality that
this custom hook needs to surface
to whoever is using the hook.
So, what things do we need to return
while we want to return the actual order itself?
We want to return add to order and remove from order.
And those are our two utility functions.
And then once we get into this fourth part here,
we'll also have some loading and error states
that need to be returned.
Okay, cool.
Then what we can do, is hop back into our order.js
And we'll go to our order page.
Right below, where we use our use form.
We'll say const, curly brackets, order, add to order,
remove from order is equal to usepizza.
And we'll have to import that usepizza hook.
Boom. Where did that go? Right there.
It's imported from our utilities folder.
And then I believe now we should be able to...
Oh, got a bit of an error.
Oh, it's because we didn't pass it.
Pizzas, which is what is... What is our pizzas? Pizzas
Oh, it's right here.
I've got to move this value and move that up to the top.
So pizzas, and then we also need to pass at the inputs,
which is going to be our value.
So that won't make sense just yet,
but we'll come back to that in just a bit.
Okay. So we should able to inspect this order page
in our react components,
And go to our hooks. See, we have two hooks in here.
First one is our form. The second one is pizza.
And then our state is an empty array.
So we'll keep that open while we code the rest of it.
And we should see that then populate.
So, when you go to our buttons,
small, medium, large, extra large,
we'll add an onclick handler to that button.
So we say on click is equal to curly brackets,
we'll do an inline function and
we will just run, add to order.
And let's take a look at our actual
use pizza add to order. Takes in an ordered pizza.
And the ordered pizza is going to have an id and a size.
So curly brackets, id is pizza.id
And the size is going to be the size variable.
And that will just be sent as a size.
So, when somebody clicks it, run the add to order function,
which comes from our hook and then add this object,
which is ID and size
So now I believe, if we click on one of these boom, boom.
If we open up our pizza here,
you see our state for each of these pizzas is showing up.
And we don't need to pass all of the
information about the pizza
because we can look up the name of the pizza and all that.
We just need to know the size as well as
the id of the pizza.
So one look as I start to add things
that internal state will be added.
Okay.
So now that we've got some state showing up here...
By the way, if you refresh this page, it will be gone.
We'll look at how to at least maintain the state
when you go from page to page.
But for now, you have to click the button a couple of times,
every time you come to this page.
So let's go over to our components folder.
And we're going to make a new component
that is going to hold the displaying of our order items.
So go to components, create a new file.
We'll call it capital PizzaOrder.js
Import, react from react, export default,
function, pizza order.
That will take a couple of props.
We need to pass it our actual order so we can display it.
It needs a list of the pizzas, so we can look up their image
and the price and the name and all that good stuff about it.
It needs our remove from order function,
because we have to be able to remove it from the order,
if you don't want it.
And then we also want a plain image,
which is going to display the actual image that we have.
Okay.
Now, from this,
we don't want to return a div because
we want to return just the raw order items.
So what we'll do here, is we'll turn the fragments
and then inside of there, just say order.
Let's just make sure we can get this on the page now.
So go back to our actual order page and go down here,
where it says order legend, and we'll just say pizza order.
Now make sure you auto import that.
Auto import is not working for me. Maybe I try it again.
Here we go. That one worked.
Now, what do we need to pass in?
Well we need to pass in our order.
The list of pizzas, they're removed from order
and the plain image.
So I'll go over here and I'll say our order is equal to.
Well, you can still access that because
it's in the same scope, right there.
Order variable, order.
Remove from order is equal to remove from order.
And you might be asking like,
"Wes, why does that function need to be passed in?
Can't I just grab it from our hook?"
And the important part is that this remove from order
function is bound to our list of state.
And if you were to use the hook again,
you would create a separate set of pizzas
and you wouldn't be able to talk to each other.
So in our case, you have to pass it in.
What else do we need? Remove from order, pizzas.
Pizza is an easy to pass. So pizzas is equal to pizzas.
And then the last one, a plain image.
Now, we don't need that.
Sorry, that was the old version of this that I was building.
We don't need to do that. So remove that.
And we're good.
Now, we should be able to go into here
and let's just do a paragraph.
Say you have ordered.length items in your order.
Zero and then as you click this, there we go.
See how it's going up and up and up.
And we should also see it in here.
The state is it's being added. Good.
So, now let's start looping over the items in our order.
So, curly brackets, order.map,
and we'll call this a single order.
We also need to put parentheses around this
because we need the index as well.
So, if we need to remove it, we can have that.
From this, we return, menu, item, styles.
Make sure you import that sucker.
It's not working. Import menu item styles from
../styles/ What was it? Let's just grab it from here.
Upper level, into styles/MenuItemStyles.
Okay. Then return menu items, styles,
and let's just give ourselves an h2 tag
that has the single order.id.
Let's just put that in there and make sure it's working.
Boom, boom.
Every time you add one, the id of that is showing up.
Okay. That's kind of working.
Let's get working on rendering this out a little bit more.
We need a key here.
So singleOrder.id, let's give ourselves the image.
We'll import image, import Img from Gatsby image.
We go down here. Fluid is equal to now.
We've got to look up the actual
singular pizza for this specific
Because remember a single order only gives us
the size and the id.
If we want all the information about
the pizza that they're ordering,
we need to look it up in the pizzas array.
So we'll go change this to curly brackets,
put a return, then up here you say
const pizza is equal to pizzas.find,
and then we'll just look for where the pizza.id
is equal to the singleOrder.id
And that should give us the pizza that they want.
And then in here we can say pizza.image.fluid.asset
.fluid
Hey, that's working. So, if I add a pizza,
the actual image is showing up. Good.
So we've got our image.
We got our h2 and we need a paragraph that shows us
how much that pizza is.
So curly brackets, we'll say pizza.price
Okay. And now we need to do the whole song and dance
that we did before. Calculate the pizza price.
Calculate pizza price.
You need to import that.
And then we also need a format, money surrounding that,
None.
(laughs)
Oh, what did we do?
Oh, we forgot to pass, calculate pizza price.
We forgot to pass it, the size. So singleOrder.size
There we go. Okay.
Still inside this paragraph, but below,
we need a button with the type of button,
class name of remove, that's for the CSS we wrote earlier.
A title of back ticks that says, remove singleorder.size
pizza.name from order. So that's for accessibilities.
And then inside of that,
I'm just going to do n percent times.
And single order is not defined. Capital O on our Order.
Add an item to our order.
What we need to do is replace this id
with the actual pizza name.
So, pizza.name. There we go.
Our button is not showing up.
Let's take a look. Paragraph.
Oh, the button is like, it's in the top right hand corner.
I bet we didn't put a position relative
on our menu item styles.
So we go to our menu, item, styles,
pop a pasrel on there. There we go.
Now these x's are showing up.
So, important thing to note here,
these x's I'm using the end times semi-colon,
that's the HTML entity for multiplication sign.
And if we did not do this title here,
users who are using screen reader would just hear
multiplication sign.
And they have no idea that X means remove it from the order.
So it's good. But now if you click it, it does nothing.
So we need to say on click is equal to
we'll do a little arrow function,
remove from order and we need to pastel the index of the
item in our order to remove it.
So let's add a bunch of items here.
Now, if I remove this, boom,
you see it now removes it from our actual state.
You can add them up all day and remove them, good.
So we've got our order being shown up.
We have our menu being able to add the items here.
One kind of weird thing is if you
like one of these pizzas, you're like,
"Oh, the pear necessities, what was on that again?"
You go to pizza and then you find
the pizza that you want. There it is.
That was really lucky. I clicked the right thing.
That was not intentional.
And then you go back to your order, your order is gone.
So in the next video,
I'm going to show you how to persist that using react
context instead of just state inside of this component.